Hi friends.
In this video, we are going to see how to read variable values
from command line for your advocate command or AWPA script.
Okay, so in our previous video,
we have seen how to define a variable
in your edible decay command or in your script directly.
Now I don't want to define,
I don't want to fix a variable value in your arabic,
a command or edit wiki script.
I want to read that variable value from command line.
And then how you can do this and make sure that guys,
as of now, right,
we did not include it anywhere AWPA inside of your shell script.
Still we are working with only a WK iota b get command and script.
Reading a WK variables from Shell script is a different story.
Right?
How to read variable values from command line or
how to read variable values for your AW k's are different.
Now we are going to work only on your WK.
Well, going forward, we will discuss combination of your shell and AWPA and how
to read variable values inside of your shell script for your data became right, fine.
So just remember that as of now,
you are going to work with only a WK, Right?
So before going to enter into this concept,
right, we like command line.
Command for your AWS is righty how some options here.
Then you can write begin action here,
then some pattern or condition.
Let me write it once.
And then actual action here,
then N. And then you are input.
So input either in terms of filename or it can run some command
and that command output also you can provide as a input for your AWS command.
Right? Now.
You're here also, you need single quotation.
That's fine.
See these options, right?
Basically these options are helpful for your AWPA whenever,
if you include AWPA inside of your shell scripts,
right as of now we are not including
your shelves replicate command inside of your shell script.
We are purely discussing about AWPA.
That's why anybody here also you can use it options,
but this is not suggestible way to use your options.
Whenever if you are going to use only a WK command independently from your shell script.
That's why just I am deleting this.
Now for your air replicate command or for Arabic script.
This is your syntax.
Right? Now.
Already we know from our previous video,
if you want to define a variable value,
right, the best two places.
Sorry, this is BGI and begin block.
1 second. Yes, fine.
So whenever if you want to define a variable in your AWPA command or scrape,
the best places. Begin block.
Right?
Now you are not initializing your variables.
Now, you are not initializing your variables.
Then what you are doing, you want to read your variables from command line, right?
You want to provide some input for your AW K. Then at that time, right?
Known enough begin action, right?
Fine.
Now here also now you can remove your begin.
Even if you keep no, I'm all right.
That's fine.
Then see in your shell scripts, right?
While working with your shell script to read some variable value from command line,
you are using a read command.
But for your AW K,
you don't have any command like read,
to read some value from command line while running your public key is correct.
Then the only way you How to provide some input
is either in terms of file or in terms of some command output.
Right?
Now, assume that I want to read two variables for my AWPA.
Let's say I want to read a value and b value using your AWPA command,
and I wanted to split that values.
Then how you can do it?
Right?
Now, I am telling that you can provide your input
for your AW k using either filename or command.
Now whenever if you are providing your file name or command at that time,
you can do your required action,
right, using your actual action block.
Not with the begin or not with end.
And of course in the end you can print something, but no problem.
But whenever if you're providing some input for your EW k,
then you need to include this logic.
Otherwise, there is no use by providing input for your AWPA command.
Fine. Now you how to read variable values.
Then what you need, you need to provide input in
terms of file name or in terms of command.
And whenever if you're providing input for
your NEW K in terms of file or in terms of command output,
you need to include this logic.
And this is optional if you want to keep it.
If you want to remove, you can remove it.
Even begun also optional.
Make sure that you are providing input.
Then definitely you should have this logic here.
Of course, part of our conditioning is your wish,
but you need this block first thing.
Right?
Now.
First I am taking a simple example with this format so that they can easily understand.
Alright, C, I'm going to provide some command.
With that command, I'm going to give inputs for my AW k,
that is a and b values.
We will do that command.
But before that, a WK, Right?
As I've no, I don't want any pattern or condition.
And that is what I want to do.
E's write, print E-value, right?
Yj equals two.
So here I want to print a value.
That is, I will do something here.
Then B value.
Then I want to print here be valued.
That's it.
Then.
So here what I'm doing is I'm simply doing a CO 26.
Now what I'm doing is yeah,
I'm filling as two and B,
I am taking us six.
No, you know, this is actual logic inside of this.
If you remember your AW K command,
right already we discussed this is $1.1 and this is $1.2 inner record, right?
That's why what I'm doing is here I am writing $1.1 and I am writing here $1.2, dots it.
Now let me copy this and run on your command line.
Let me open my terminal.
See that you are getting a equals two. And because 26.
Now, instead of in this way,
just to do what you do is you just saw a stored this value CAB and values in one file.
Let me say it in this way to space six.
So why I'm taking space means by default in Ojeda b,
k is going to separate your records into fields based on space.
Now what I want to do is now I need to provide
input from file and infile I defined the values for my eNB values. I'll see the output.
Right?
You can also do one more way.
I mean, instead of going in this way, right?
I'm assigning a value equal to $1.1, right?
That is first as statement.
And now I want to write B equals $2.2 from your file second value.
So you're writing multiple statements.
You have to separate with colon, sorry, semicolon,
right already we discussed in our previous video how to execute multiple statements.
Then print directly I can write E,
a and b, c output.
But I need like a cos 2x E-value and B goes to b.
Well that means I want to display some message,
then j equals two.
Then b equals two.
The object.
Right?
So guys, this is one statement,
this is one statement,
and this is one more statement,
three statements you are having
not please statements you have to separate with semicolon.
And as of no in your file you have only one line.
You know, these action.
If you remember, this actually is going to perform on each and every line of
your input file or line you can also call as record, right?
Let me add some more values for
your in second lemma and defining a value as phi and B. Well S6.
Now see the output you are going to get two times output because you have
two records on each and every record your action is going to perform.
This is actual logic, right?
Actual action on your AWPA.
See that from first record you are
getting a value two and b value six from secondary God,
you are getting a value, find the value six.
Right?
That's it. So guys,
in this way you can provide input for over eight WK,
I mean, to provide some variable values.
And anyway, this is like command.
Now what I want to do is I want to write a script.
A public casted, then display and BAM, right?
Taking display a and b values dot a WK, Right?
So first I'm going to write your AWPA script without taking your shebang line.
So if you don't take shebang line,
how to run, you know, right?
See, if you don't take shebang line,
then how you can run your AWPA command, AWPA hyphen.
If you were a WK script, then input file.
Right?
So now I'm going to add first AWPA script
without including this shebang line inside of this script.
If you don't mention shebang line instead of your script,
then from command line you hard to run in this way, right first, see that?
So now I don't need begin because I'm not initializing anything.
I want to read input from command line,
I mean from file.
That's why you want to do.
I have to start with actual logic.
Even though you could write begin, right?
You just write begin on,
close with some empty lines in case if you are getting confusion,
simply denied some empty.
Begin all snowball.
Now you have to write c,
I'm sorry, or command line.
First what you are writing begin.
Then if you need,
suppose some pattern condition, you can write it as up.
No, I don't want any pattern or condition that it like a make actual logic.
Not to write your actual logic of the completion of your begin just right forward.
You just taught in this way.
And here, right?
I am writing a equals $2.1.
Step-by-step.
B equals $2.2 means in your file second field,
then I want to print a equals two here, a value,
then b equals two.
So if you don't write comma,
right? So what will happen?
You just observe that. And here guys,
you are writing your statements in multiple lines.
That's why no need to write separate semicolon.
Now, you-how you were scripting this way.
Now if you want to run a WK hyphen F display,
then provide your input AB dot TXT sees output.
Now I don't want to provide my AWPA command outside of this, in this way,
then I can include this as a shebang line inside of
your AW case clip. Now see the output.
So under been a WK, That's it.
Now just you, me the exclusion permission for this.
Now I am running display, but, uh, you know,
to provide your input filename always,
because you're now you're reading $1.1,
$100 to those are nothing but from each line you
are taking Foster Field and second field, right?
See, absorbed your script once a equals the alone means in each and every line.
And the way this is actual logic, you know,
actual logic is going to perform on each and every line of your input.
Now in input you how two lines?
So while working with the first line, this action,
right, a value is nothing but two and we,
well anything but six.
And after completion of this entire logic on your first line of your given file,
automatically it will go on to work on next line.
So in next line,
ye value is phi and B value six way I'm saying ye value phi and B value six Mei.
Ye value your writing assigning US $1.1.
$1.1 means foster field.
Right?
Now let me run and see the output.
That's it. Right? Now.
Just to write some decoration in begin block, right?
You know what, you are going to write in begin and end.
They are going to execute only once.
Only the action which is there in actual logic is going to repeat on each and every line,
but begin and end, they're going to execute only once.
That's why I am writing here.
Print finding a and b values from AB dot TXT file.
That's it.
And I'm going to write end block also,
and is also going to execute only once.
It is not going to depend on your input file.
Completed. Reading yea and v values.
That's a close it.
Now run your script,
dot your AWS, good space, a 2.txt.
See that finding completed between that,
you are repeating your actual action on each and every line.
Okay?
So guys, now,
actually this is whenever if you want to write a script completely in terms of a WK,
The he's a syntax you ought to follow.
But if you want to include your AWPA script inside of your shells gave,
then just to follow in this way.
That means you just,
even though if it is there no problem, right?
You have to run the AWPA hyphen f, then display.
I mean you are to edible script logic,
then your file name, it will work.
So this syntax, right?
And you are worried for syntax,
either this one or this one,
those two are going to use in your shell scripts.
So anyway, while discussing with the combination of your AWPA command,
edible gets skipped it with the shell will discuss that.
Okay, so here's the,
here's the simple way to read
your variable values from command line in your end-of-life care scripts.
Okay?
Okay guys, thank you for watching this video.